[Term Entry] Python SQL Connectors: SQLite3 (#5681)
Codecademy/docs: content/python/concepts/sql-connectors/terms/sqlite3/sqlite3.md

con = sqlite3.connect("mydb_db.db")
```

## Create a cursor

A cursor is required to execute SQL statements. The function **`.cursor()`** creates one.

```py
curs = connection.cursor()

```

## Create a table

The **`.execute()`** function can be used to create a table.

```py
curs.execute('''CREATE TABLE persons(
            name TEXT,
            age INTEGER,
            gender TEXT)
            ''')
```

## Insert a value into the table

To insert values into the table, the SQL statement is executed with the **`.execute()`** function.

```py
curs.execute('''INSERT INTO persons VALUES(
            'Alice', 21, 'female')''')
```

## Insert many values into the table

In order to insert many values into the table, the SQL statement is executed with the **`.executemany()`** function and in addition with an array.

```py
new_persons = [('Bob', 26, 'male'),
              ('Charlie', 19, 'male'),
              ('Daisy', 18, 'female')
              ]

curs.executemany('''INSERT INTO persons VALUES(?, ?, ?)''', new_persons)
```

## Commit the Transaction

The **`.commit()`** function persists the inserted values to the database.

```py
con.commit()
```

## Check the inserted rows

> In order to check all inserted rows, the function **`.fetchall()`** can be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To check all inserted rows, the  **`.fetchall()`**  function can be used.
```

```py
result = cursor.execute("SELECT * FROM persons")

result.fetchall()
```

## Close the connection

> After all transactions are completed, the connection should be closed with **`.close()`**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After completing all the transactions , connection can be closed with **`.close()`**.
```

```py
connection.close()
```

## Codebyte Example

> The complete example for tinkering.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
"An example showing how to connect to an `SQLite` database, `create a table`, `insert/query data`, and `close the connection.`"
```
